Forrest Rangers!
Today, we present the final program in this second series on forest conservation, featuring Bill Scott, Forest Ranger.
Our scene is Beaver Dam Forest.
It is a late summer day, and the sun is about to set in golden glory.
Outwardly, the forest and all of its living plants and creatures seem at peace with the world.
And yet, on the narrow woods road that runs along Storm Creek,
Small pebbles and bits of soil have been rolling down from above all day, a danger signal of more serious things to come.
But Ranger Bill's niece, June, his two young assistants, Joe and Sam, have no knowledge of what's taking place above Storm Creek as they travel along the forest highway in the pickup truck.
Even though this is the last day the three will spend on Beaver Dam Forest this summer, they seem unusually gay in spirit, excited, and downright frisky.
Boy, won't Ranger Bill be surprised?
I just want to see his face, that's all.
A surprise, Potty.
Uncle Bill will be pleased.
Oh, sure.
Ranger Bill deserves it.
He's always doing something for other people.
It's about time someone did something for him.
I don't think Uncle Bill will ever think about that at all.
Jesus.
Hasn't everybody been wonderful?
You bet, June.
Just look at the stuff back there in the truck.
Homemade bread, lemon pie, and homemade root beer from the McDonald's.
Mmm, potato salad, coleslaw, and fresh fruit from Mr. Evans.
And that gallon of ice cream from Mayor Arnold.
Boy, I can't wait.
There seems to be an awful lot for just the four of us.
Golly, the folks were generous.
We'll do away with all of it.
Don't you worry.
You just wait and see.
Do you think Uncle Bill is wondering why we're so late?
Mmm, I don't know.
He told me to take it easy, to bring Joe down from Hawk Tower, and to pick you up at camp.
Sure, but look at the stops we made at the McDonald's and Mr. Evans Farm and Mayor Arnold's office.
Stop worrying, June.
Ranger Bill knows we can take care of ourselves.
And that's one thing this summer's given me.
More confidence than I've ever had before.
Oh, it has been a wonderful summer, hasn't it?
Golly, the things we've learned.
Not only how to take care of ourselves, but also how important forests really are.
I know what you mean, Joe.
As Ranger Bill says, there's certainly more than timber in trees.
Wood for a thousand uses.
And water.
To drink, for irrigation, and to provide electrical power.
Yes.
And food for livestock.
And food and shelter for wildlife.
Don't forget recreation.
Outdoor fun and relaxation.
But it takes planning, June, and good care to keep the soil fertile and the land producing.
You sound like a forestry encyclopedia comes alive.
Well, it's not as funny as it may sound, Joe.
We need our forests so very much, but we've just got to take care of them, keep them green and growing.
We certainly were tender feet, yeah, before we met Ranger Bill, weren't we?
Bam.
I feel like a wise old woods veteran now.
Yes, sir.
My, aren't you two really sad?
We didn't mean to brag, Jim.
It's just that, well, as Sam said, we've got real confidence now.
Sure, that's it.
I bet you couldn't lose us in a forest anymore, and I bet there are a few tough situations that we couldn't get out of either.
Well, I wonder what Uncle Bill would think if he heard you two now.
Oh, don't mind her, Joe.
He's jealous, that's all.
Hey, look at that sun over there, and it's sinking pretty fast.
We are running late, aren't we?
It'll be dark before we get to the ranger's station.
Aha, fear not, little ones.
I have a plan.
Ah, here's the turn I've been looking for.
Sam, where are you going?
Oh, I'm taking a shortcut, Joan, that's all.
It'll get us to the ranger station in half the time it will take on the highway.
Hey, this is the logging road along Storm Creek, isn't it?
Oh, that's right, Joe.
A real shortcut.
I was over it last year during the big fire.
Last year?
I don't know, Sam.
Ranger Bill has warned us about traveling on roads that we're not sure of.
Maybe we'd better go back to the highway, Sam, even if it does take longer that way.
Golly, don't you have any confidence in it, June?
Well, I... Sure, this is a cinch to get us back in a hurry.
Now, you just relax, June.
Well, all right.
Say, isn't that the most beautiful sunset we've had all summer?
Gee, it's something all right.
Sam?
Yes, June?
Sam, I'm not worried anymore.
Oh, swell.
I told you we'd be all right coming this way.
Hold everything.
What happened?
Look, up ahead there.
Good gravy.
It's a big uprooted tree lying right across the road in front of us.
Say, I'd better stop.
Gee, I don't know.
Let's go back to the highway, Sam.
There's no place to turn around in June.
We're right on the top of the cliff.
And it's too far to back up all the way.
What was that?
Hey, look!
Look at that.
Yeah, all those rocks and that dirt coming down the road.
I don't like this, Sam.
It's the result of the fire last year.
Sam, I'm fighting.
Oh, now, June.
Hey, quick, get behind this truck.
Look out.
It's a landslide, and it's right behind us.
June, June, are you all right?
I wasn't here.
I'm okay, too.
Golly, were we lucky.
Let her scratch on us or the truck.
And just look at those big rocks.
Oh, but what a mess we're in just the same.
Trey blocking us in front, heavy boulders blocking us in the back.
Now for it.
I guess we'd better call Ranger Bill on the shortwave radio.
Yeah, I suppose we'd better.
Well, there goes our surprise party.
Ranger Bill probably will come and help us out of this mess.
He'll see the food and... Oh, doggone the luck anyway.
Oh, calm, Sam.
Maybe everything will work out, yes.
Oh, you're swell, June.
Instead of laughing at us for talking so big and acting so mighty, you aren't laughing at all.
Oh, we're all in this together, Sam.
Well, I've learned a lesson, believe me.
And Joe, I'm afraid it was all my fault.
Oh, stop it, both of you.
Sam, call Uncle Bill.
I hope his set's on, that's all.
Well, here goes.
Let her warm up a bit first.
Okay, now.
SP-7 to Beaver Dam Ranger Station.
Come in, Ranger Station.
Ranger Station, back to SP-7.
All right, go ahead, Sam.
It's almost as though he expected us to call.
Ranger Bill, we're in trouble.
Come in.
Sam.
Road, Ranger Bill, on the edge of the cliff.
Nearly got caught in a landslide.
The truck's blocked by a big tree in front and rocks in the back.
We can't move either way.
Come in, please.
Cut your way out.
Is there anything else?
Come in.
Cut your way out?
What does he mean?
Holy smoke, are we dumb?
Why, sure.
We've got a two-man crosscut saw in the truck, and we can use the saw to cut our way out.
You'd better answer, Ranger Bill, Sam.
SP-7, back to Ranger Station.
Okay, Ranger Bill, we'll make it all right.
SP-7 off.
That's the stuff.
Don't waste time getting here.
Ranger Station off.
Oh, boy, weren't we the prized dumbheads, though?
See, everything's gonna be all right after all.
Hurry, boys.
Let's get out of here.
It's getting dark, and we still have a surprise party on our hands.
Well, I'll get the sauce, Sam.
It's a big tree, but we can cut it so that the top end will slide over the cliff.
That'll clear her out of the way, yes, sir.
Well, then, come on.
Let's go.
Boy, that was some work-off, but we certainly did it, didn't we, Joy?
I'm proud of both of you.
There she blows.
There's our ranger station ahead.
Drive to the back, Sam, where Uncle Bill won't see us.
Then we'll get busy.
I just hope Mr. Glover sends those fakes in time as he promised.
Hey, that's funny.
No lights are on in the ranger station.
No lights are showing anywhere.
Well, we'll drive on back anyway.
Say, I wonder where Ranger Bill is.
He must be around somewhere, Sam.
Don't worry, unless he sees us first.
All right, we can stop here.
Well, it's about time you got here.
Where did all you both come from?
They were hiding behind the woods.
Yeah.
Well, I'll be doggone.
Look, there's Mr. and Mrs. Glover.
And Tony Perkins.
I wouldn't have missed this for anything.
And the McDonald's, too.
And Mayor Arnold's.
You bet.
And Mr. Evans, how did you get here?
It was easy, June.
After you left my place, well, I just cranked up the helicopter and, well, it only took me a few minutes.
I don't get it.
I just don't get it.
We planned this as a surprise party for you, Rangers.
Now, you really didn't think you could fool the Ranger, did you, Sam?
See, Rancho, I guess not.
Oh, we should have known better.
Well, here, here, here, now.
Brighten up.
Everyone's in on this party.
You two boys have done such a fine job all summer, and you two dudes, you can't, but all of these good friends are your time this long before you did.
You're absolutely right, Mrs. McDonald.
Let's get going, Mr. McDonald.
It's all fixed soon.
Tom and Betty Glover brought over a big section of barbecued beef.
And you've got prepared food in the truck.
Tables all set alongside the ranger station.
Come on, let's go.
Let me tell you, folks, this is the best meal I've had in a long, long time.
I guess that goes for all of us, Mayor Arnold.
Gosh, it's sure going to be tough leaving all of you good people.
Uh-uh, none of that, Sam.
Now, you and Joe have Forestry College ahead of you, and there'll be more summers between sessions.
Well, now,
How about a little tune on that harmonica of yours, Sam?
This'll be one farewell banquet that won't have speeches, I'm glad to say.
Hold on a minute, Ranger.
Not so fast.
All right, Mr. McDonald.
I'm not much of a speech maker, Mr. Mayor, but here goes.
Ranger Scott, all these folks kind of elected me to say a few words before we wind up tonight.
And I'm thinking this is as good a time as an insane.
Well...
No, no, Mr. Mack, there's no need for it.
Here we are, a mayor of a town, a young young kid, a wife, young, and up-and-coming farmer, a schoolgirl, two schoolgirls, got in the museum, and saw in the shop on the street.
Then there's you, a forestry.
And there's no forestry.
What brought us all together?
Well, sir, it was a forest.
But more than that,
It was what you're trying to do to help the forest service all better.
Everybody better.
I've made our plans for it.
I just want to say we're mighty proud it happens.
We know now how important it is to manage the forest for the good of all of us.
To keep it safe from overcutting, from bulging, fire, from overgrazing.
And if ever you want to teach other folks the same lesson, you're just calling us, Ranger Bill Scott.
We're your friends in the friends of the forest.
Well, is that all we got to say?
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Mack.
Thanks all.
Well, Sam, how about that harmonica now?
Okay, sir.
This time blend with the night air surrounding the Beaver Dam radio station.
We say so long for a while to Ranger Bill, to June, Joe, and Sam, to all of their good friends, until another time.
Participating in this series on forest conservation have been the following members of the radio workshop of the New York City Board of Education.
Larry Corn was Joe, Sam was played by Bob Dash, Joan Jackson was cast in the role of June.
Other members of the cast included Stan Gurrell, Evelyn Leisner, Delta Bestman, Philip Gittleman, Alan Roman,
Dick Jebhardt, Bob Josinski, Ruth Ullman, and Dan Melnick.
Sound effects were handled by Dwayne Marshall, Al Argoff, and Tom Connors.
Music was the responsibility of Tom Hartley.
Robert Nacier was our harmonica player.
Our engineers were Al Weintraub and Joe Stoneman.
Will Scott, our stranger.
...and produced for radio by Van Lentzler Brokaw.
The narrator is M.L.
Riley.